---
description: 'Amazon OA, String'
---

# 0. Longest string made up of only vowels

> You are given with a string . Your task is to **remove** **at** **most two** **substrings** of **any length** from the given string such that the remaining string contains vowels\('a','e','i','o','u'\) only. Your aim is the **maximize the length of the remaining string**. Output the length of remaining string after removal of at most two substrings.  
> NOTE: The answer may be 0, i.e. removing the entire string.
>
> Sample Input  
> 2  
> earthproblem  
> letsgosomewhere  
> Sample Output  
> 3  
> 2

## Solutions

Getting troubles understanding the meaning of the question in the first place, since I was doubted that substring can be discontinuous. In that way we only need one removal and keep all vowels. And I misunderstood the removal by thinking the manipulation can only be removing consonant. But we essentially can remove consonants + vowels, and leave substring of only vowels with the longest length. Therefore I highlighted the keywords and points that I should pay attention on to understand the question clearly. This is ambiguity that I need to clarify by myself or talk to the interviewer.

### Approach \#1

Just compute length of each vowel substring. If the first letter is not vowel, prepend an "empty vowel substring" on left If the last letter is not vowel, append an "empty vowel substring" on right Then you can cut two substrings in the middle and the answer should be "left + right + max of middle"

```python
def longestVowelsOnlySubstring(S):
    temp, aux, vowels = 0, [], set('aeiou')
    # Count the length of each vowel substring
    for c in S + 'z':
        if c in vowels:
            temp += 1
        elif temp:
            aux.append(temp)
            temp = 0
    # If the first letter is not vowel, you must cut the head
    if S[0] not in vowels: aux = [0] + aux
    # If the last letter is not vowel, you must cut the tail
    if S[-1] not in vowels: aux += [0]
    # Max length = max head + max tail + max middle
    return aux[0] + aux[-1] + max(aux[1:-1]) if len(aux) >= 3 else sum(aux)
```

