# 1153. String Transforms Into Another String

> Given two strings `str1` and `str2` of the same length, determine whether you can transform `str1` into `str2` by doing **zero or more** _conversions_.
>
> In one conversion you can convert **all** occurrences of one character in `str1` to **any** other lowercase English character.
>
> Return `true` if and only if you can transform `str1` into `str2`.
>
> **Example 1:**
>
> ```text
> Input: str1 = "aabcc", str2 = "ccdee"
> Output: true
> Explanation: Convert 'c' to 'e' then 'b' to 'd' then 'a' to 'c'. Note that the order of conversions matter.
> ```
>
> **Example 2:**
>
> ```text
> Input: str1 = "leetcode", str2 = "codeleet"
> Output: false
> Explanation: There is no way to transform str1 to str2.
> ```
>
> **Note:**
>
> 1. `1 <= str1.length == str2.length <= 10^4`
> 2. Both `str1` and `str2` contain only lowercase English letters.

## Solutions

### Approach \#1 HashMap

Map each character in `str1` to what it needs to be in `str2`. If any of these mappings collide \(e.g. `str1` = "aa", `str2` = "bc", "a" needs to become both "b" and "c"\) we immediately return `False` since the transformation is impossible.

Next, we check the number of unique characters in `str2`. If all 26 characters are represented, there are no characters available to use for temporary conversions, and the transformation is impossible. The only exception to this is if `str1` is equal to `str2`, so we handle this case at the start of the function.

```python
class Solution:
    def canConvert(self, str1: str, str2: str) -> bool:
        if str1 == str2:
            return True
        m = {}
        for i in range(len(str1)):
            if str1[i] not in m:
                m[str1[i]] = str2[i]
            elif m[str1[i]] != str2[i]:
                return False
        return len(set(str2)) < 26
```

### Approach \#2 HashMap

#### **Explanation**

Scan `s1` and `s2` at the same time,  
record the transform mapping into a map/array.  
The same char should transform to the same char.  
Otherwise we can directly return false.

To realize the transformation:

1. transformation of link link ,like `a -> b -> c`: we do the transformation from end to begin, that is `b->c` then `a->b`
2. transformation of cycle, like `a -> b -> c -> a`: in this case we need a `tmp` `c->tmp`, `b->c` `a->b` and `tmp->a` Same as the process of swap two variable.

In both case, there should at least one character that is unused,  
to use it as the `tmp` for transformation.  
So we need to return if the size of set of unused characters &lt; 26.

#### **Complexity**

Time `O(N)` for scanning input  
Space `O(26)` to record the mapping  
running time can be improved if count available character during the scan.  


```python
class Solution:
    def canConvert(self, str1: str, str2: str) -> bool:
            if str1 == str2:
                return True
            m = {}
            for i, j in zip(str1, str2):
                if m.setdefault(i, j) != j:
                    return False
            return len(set(str2)) < 26
```

