---
description: 'Medium, String, Stack, Facebook'
---

# 1249. Minimum Remove to Make Valid Parentheses

> Given a string s of `'('` , `')'` and lowercase English characters. 
>
> Your task is to remove the minimum number of parentheses \( `'('` or `')'`, in any positions \) so that the resulting _parentheses string_ is valid and return **any** valid string.
>
> Formally, a _parentheses string_ is valid if and only if:
>
> * It is the empty string, contains only lowercase characters, or
> * It can be written as `AB` \(`A` concatenated with `B`\), where `A` and `B` are valid strings, or
> * It can be written as `(A)`, where `A` is a valid string.
>
> **Example 1:**
>
> ```text
> Input: s = "lee(t(c)o)de)"
> Output: "lee(t(c)o)de"
> Explanation: "lee(t(co)de)" , "lee(t(c)ode)" would also be accepted.
> ```
>
> **Example 2:**
>
> ```text
> Input: s = "a)b(c)d"
> Output: "ab(c)d"
> ```
>
> **Example 3:**
>
> ```text
> Input: s = "))(("
> Output: ""
> Explanation: An empty string is also valid.
> ```
>
> **Example 4:**
>
> ```text
> Input: s = "(a(b(c)d)"
> Output: "a(b(c)d)"
> ```
>
> **Constraints:**
>
> * `1 <= s.length <= 10^5`
> * `s[i]` is one of  `'('` , `')'` and lowercase English letters`.`

## Solutions

### Approach \#1

```python
class Solution:
    def minRemoveToMakeValid(self, s: str) -> str:
        remove_pos = set()
        lefts = []
        for i, c in enumerate(s):
            if c == '(':
                lefts.append(i)
            elif c == ')':
                if lefts:
                    lefts.pop()
                else:
                    remove_pos.add(i)
        remove_pos |= set(lefts)
        return ''.join(c for i, c in enumerate(s) if i not in remove_pos)
```

#### Take away

* Sets are significantly faster when it comes to determining if an object is present in the set \(as in `x in s`\), but are slower than lists when it comes to iterating over their contents.

### Approach \#2 one of optimal solutions

There are two key points for this problem

* when we encountered '\(', is this left bracket would be in our final result
* how to remove invalid brackets and rebuild the string

Before figuring out the first point, we need to think about what forms a valid string interval? Apparently, when we encounter a enclosing, right bracket '\)', we need to track back to see if there's a opening, left bracket that can form a pair with this bracket, and if there are multiple ones, it should match the nearest one that it meets when tracing back. And along with all letters sits in between, it forms a valid '\(letters\)'. Therefore the answer to the first points is when it can match a '\)' later in out iteration of the s, then it must in our final result. Using a stack, by nature, in this case, is the best data structure to find the latest matching string.

Since there isn't yet a enclosing bracket found, when we encounter a '\(', we will not add that to the stack, everything pushed to the stack should only be content that to be a valid string, instead we need to keep track of everything valid before this '\(' that indicates another either just letters string or content started from previous, opening bracket in the one level up that waits for a corresponding enclosing bracket. And this should be also append to the list. When encounter a '\)' pop one content from the stack which is the content before the nearest opening bracket if there's any, use this content + '\(' + cur\_str + '\)' to form a valid string in this level.

#### Takeaway

* Stack
  * be sensitive to its nature: FILO
* Not only single number/char, 有时候也要考虑能否成段压栈，充分利用特点性质

```python
class Solution:
    def minRemoveToMakeValid(self, s: str) -> str:
        stack, cur = [], ''
        for c in s:
            if c == '(':
                stack.append(cur)
                cur = ''
            elif c == ')':
                if stack:
                    cur = stack.pop() + '(' + cur + ')'
            else:
                cur += c
        while stack:
            cur = stack.pop() + cur
        return cur
```

