---
description: 'Medium, Priority Queue, Array'
---

# 621. Task Scheduler

> Given a char array representing tasks CPU need to do. It contains capital letters A to Z where different letters represent different tasks. Tasks could be done without original order. Each task could be done in one interval. For each interval, CPU could finish one task or just be idle.
>
> However, there is a non-negative cooling interval **n** that means between two **same tasks**, there must be at least n intervals that CPU are doing different tasks or just be idle.
>
> You need to return the **least** number of intervals the CPU will take to finish all the given tasks.

**Example:**

```text
Input: tasks = ["A","A","A","B","B","B"], n = 2
Output: 8
Explanation: A -> B -> idle -> A -> B -> idle -> A -> B.
```

**Note:**

1. The number of tasks is in the range \[1, 10000\].
2. The integer n is in the range \[0, 100\].

## Solutions

### Approach \#1 Priority Queue

1. This is an extremely tricky problem.
2. The main idea is to schedule the most frequent tasks as frequently as possible. Begin with scheduling the most frequent task. Then cool-off for n, and in that cool-off period schedule tasks in order of frequency, or if no tasks are available, then be idle. Exampe: Say we have the following tasks: \[A,A,A,B,C,D,E\] with n =2 Now if we schedule using the idea of scheduling all unique tasks once and then calculating if a cool-off is required or not, then we have: A,B,C,D,E,A,idle,dile,A i.e. 2 idle slots. But if we schedule using most frequent first, then we have: 2.1: A,idle,idle,A,idle,idle,A 2.2: A,B,C,A,D,E,A i.e. no idle slots. This is the general intuition of this problem. 3.The idea in two can be implemented using a heap and temp list. This is illustrated in the code below. 4.Time complexity is O\(N \* n\) where N is the number of tasks and n is the cool-off period. 5.Space complexity is O\(1\) - will not be more than O\(26\).

```python
from heapq import heappush, heappop
class Solution:
    def leastInterval(self, tasks: List[str], n: int) -> int:
        times, h = 0, []
        for k, v in collections.Counter(tasks).items():
            heappush(h, (-1*v, k))
        
        while h:
            i, tmp = 0, []
            # Do cool down one time
            while i <= n:
                times += 1
                # May reach last element with current cool-down n not finished
                if h:
                    x, y = heappop(h)
                    if x != -1:
                        tmp.append((x+1, y))
                
                if not h and not tmp:
                    break
                else:
                    i += 1
                    
            for item in tmp:
                heappush(h, item)
                
        return times
                
```

