---
description: 'Medium, Binary Search'
---

# 658. Find K Closest Elements

> Given a sorted array, two integers `k` and `x`, find the `k` closest elements to `x` in the array. The result should also be sorted in ascending order. If there is a tie, the smaller elements are always preferred.
>
> **Example 1:**  
>
>
> ```text
> Input: [1,2,3,4,5], k=4, x=3
> Output: [1,2,3,4]
> ```
>
> **Example 2:**  
>
>
> ```text
> Input: [1,2,3,4,5], k=4, x=-1
> Output: [1,2,3,4]
> ```
>
> **Note:**  
>
>
> 1. The value k is positive and will always be smaller than the length of the sorted array.
> 2. Length of the given array is positive and will not exceed 104
> 3. Absolute value of elements in the array and x will not exceed 104

## Solutions

### Approach \#1 Optimal solution

#### **Intuition**

The array is sorted.  
If we want find the one number closest to `x`,  
we don't have to check one by one.  
it's straightforward to use binary research.

Now we want the `k` closest,  
the logic should be similar.

#### **Explanation**:

Assume we are taking `A[i] ~ A[i + k -1]`.  
We can binary research `i`  
We compare the distance between `x - A[mid]` and `A[mid + k] - x`

If `x - A[mid] > A[mid + k] - x`,  
it means `A[mid + 1] ~ A[mid + k]` is better than `A[mid] ~ A[mid + k - 1]`,  
and we have `mid` smaller than the right `i`.  
So assign `left = mid + 1`.

Note that, you **SHOULD NOT** compare the **absolute value** of `abs(x - A[mid])` and `abs(A[mid + k] - x)`.  
It fails at cases like `A = [1,1,2,2,2,2,2,3,3]`, `x = 3`, `k = 3`

The problem is interesting and good.  
Unfortunately the test cases is terrible.  
The worst part of Leetcode test cases is that,  
you sumbit a wrong solution but get accepted.

You didn't read my post and upvote carefully,  
then you miss this key point.

#### **Time Complexity**:

`O(log(N - K))` to binary research and find reseult  
`O(K)` to create the returned list.

```python
class Solution:
    def findClosestElements(self, arr: List[int], k: int, x: int) -> List[int]:
        left, right = 0, len(arr) - k
        while left < right:
            mid = (left + right) // 2
            if x - arr[mid] > arr[mid + k] - x:
                left = mid + 1
            else:
                right = mid
        return arr[left:left+k]
```

