---
description: 'Hard, DP'
---

# 727. Minimum Window Subsequence

> Given strings `S` and `T`, find the minimum \(contiguous\) **substring** `W` of `S`, so that `T` is a **subsequence** of `W`.
>
> If there is no such window in `S` that covers all characters in `T`, return the empty string `""`. If there are multiple such minimum-length windows, return the one with the left-most starting index.
>
> **Example 1:**
>
> ```text
> Input: 
> S = "abcdebdde", T = "bde"
> Output: "bcde"
> Explanation: 
> "bcde" is the answer because it occurs before "bdde" which has the same length.
> "deb" is not a smaller window because the elements of T in the window must occur in order.
> ```
>
> **Note:**
>
> * All the strings in the input will only contain lowercase letters.
> * The length of `S` will be in the range `[1, 20000]`.
> * The length of `T` will be in the range `[1, 100]`.

## Solutions

m = len\(T\), n = len\(S\), scan string S and maintain a up to date list of start index of matching T in list dp\(size of m\), dp\[i\] denotes the start index when i+1 chars of T are matched. When T\[i\] appears in S, we simply update dp\[i\] = dp\[i-1\], when T\[0\] appears in S with index, we update dp\[0\] = index. Whenever dp\[m-1\] is updated, we have a new window that T is sub-sequence of, and we keep a running minimum of this window width

We scan S once, and each update depends the number of same char in T. The worst case is O\(mn\) when all position of T are identical. When the char in T doesn't have much repetition, O\(n\) time complexity is achieved.

Space complexity O\(m\)

### Approach \#1 DP, optimal solution

```python
class Solution:
    def minWindow(self, S: str, T: str) -> str:
        n = len(S)
        m = len(T)
        d = collections.defaultdict(list)
        for i, c in enumerate(T):
            d[c].append(i)
        dp = [-1 for _ in range(m)]
        min_count = n + 1
        start = -1
        for index, c in enumerate(S):
            if c in d:
                for i in d[c][::-1]:
                    if i == 0:
                        dp[i] = index
                    else:
                        dp[i] = dp[i - 1]
                    if i == m - 1 and dp[i] >= 0 and index - dp[i] + 1 < min_count:
                        min_count = index - dp[i] + 1
                        start = dp[i]
        if dp[-1] < 0:
            return ""
        return S[start: start + min_count]
```

The dp list is where you build up possible answers. It has the same length as the subsequence you are searching for \(T\). At first it has all -1's. You start scanning the search string S. The code you highlighted occurs if you hit a character in S that is also in T. The first if says "if you hit the first character in the subsequence T, update dp\[0\] to be its index in S." This is like starting a new potential answer. The else says "if I come across another character in T besides the first character, then set the spot in dp corresponding to that character to be equal to the entry before it in dp. Let's say it's the third character in S and I have previously come across the first two. Then the update entry for dp\[3\] will record the location of the start of a possible solution."...it's like your percolating up possible answers. The last if statement says "if you come across the last character in T, it's dp entry is nonzero \(meaning we percolated up an answer through the entire dp array and therefore have seen every character in order in the subsequence\), and the length of this new window is less than the best we have found so far, then update the length of this window \(named count here\) and update the start of this window...aka we found a new window".

