---
description: 'Medium, Array, Hash table, stack'
---

# 739. Daily Temperatures

> Given a list of daily temperatures `T`, return a list such that, for each day in the input, tells you how many days you would have to wait until a warmer temperature. If there is no future day for which this is possible, put `0` instead.
>
> For example, given the list of temperatures `T = [73, 74, 75, 71, 69, 72, 76, 73]`, your output should be `[1, 1, 4, 2, 1, 1, 0, 0]`.

**Note:** The length of `temperatures` will be in the range `[1, 30000]`. Each temperature will be an integer in the range `[30, 100]`.

## Solutions

The brute-force approach is obvious: for each `T[i]`, find the first `T[j]` with `j > i` and `T[j] > T[i]`, then store the difference `j-i` to `res[i]`. This is O\(n^2\) since one may need to repeatedly go through the list `T`. For instance, if `T = [4,3,2,1,5]`.

The idea is that going from right to left can reduce ton of repetitive work. We keep updating a variable `right_max` to store the current maximal number we have seen so far to the right of `T[i]` \(not including `T[i]` itself\).

If `T[i] >= right_max`, well, no future temperature will be strictly larger than `T[i]`, so we simply update `right_max = T[i]` and move on to `T[i-1]`.  
If `T[i] < right_max`, we know there is a future warmer temperature, so we start our search. First compare `T[i]` with `T[i+1]`, if `T[i+1]` is larger, we are done. Otherwise, we need to go further to the right. But by how far? Since we already did the search for `T[i+1]` before, we know that we need to go at least `res[i+1]` steps from `T[i+1]` to surpass `T[i+1]`. If `T[i+1+res[i+1]]` is larger than `T[i]`, we stop; otherwise, we check the next larger number... We keep on doing this until we finally reach some number which is strictly larger than `T[i]`. Note that each number will be only accessed twice during the search for the entire list \(since we are leaping to the right\), so the complexity is O\(n\).

### Approach \#1 \(Optimal Solution\)

```python
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, T: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        
        n, right_max = len(T), float('-inf')
        res = [0] * n
        
        for i in range(n-1, -1, -1):
            t = T[i]
            if right_max <= t:
                right_max = t
            else:
                tmp = 1
                while T[i + tmp] <= t:
                    tmp += res[i + tmp]
                res[i] = tmp
        
        return res
```

