---
description: 'Easy, String, Hash Table'
---

# 953. Verifying an Alien Dictionary

> In an alien language, surprisingly they also use english lowercase letters, but possibly in a different `order`. The `order` of the alphabet is some permutation of lowercase letters.
>
> Given a sequence of `words` written in the alien language, and the `order` of the alphabet, return `true` if and only if the given `words` are sorted lexicographicaly in this alien language.

**Example 1:**

```text
Input: words = ["hello","leetcode"], order = "hlabcdefgijkmnopqrstuvwxyz"
Output: true
Explanation: As 'h' comes before 'l' in this language, then the sequence is sorted.
```

**Example 2:**

```text
Input: words = ["word","world","row"], order = "worldabcefghijkmnpqstuvxyz"
Output: false
Explanation: As 'd' comes after 'l' in this language, then words[0] > words[1], hence the sequence is unsorted.
```

**Example 3:**

```text
Input: words = ["apple","app"], order = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
Output: false
Explanation: The first three characters "app" match, and the second string is shorter (in size.) According to lexicographical rules "apple" > "app", because 'l' > '∅', where '∅' is defined as the blank character which is less than any other character (More info).
```

**Note:**

1. `1 <= words.length <= 100`
2. `1 <= words[i].length <= 20`
3. `order.length == 26`
4. All characters in `words[i]` and `order` are english lowercase letters.

## Solutions

It's easy to be able to understand that based on what characteristics the lexicographical sequence should have, we need to make sure every two adjacent words should comply:

A. Started from the beginning index of both words, if the former word has a character that with a less order than the character on the same position of latter word, then it is immediately considered as lexicographically ordered regardless of what are the orders coming after

B. If two words have the same prefix, but the length of the latter one is longer, then it is considered as lexicographically ordered, since all rest of the indexes that do not actually existed is considered as order less than any existing characters.

Based on the characteristics of lexicographical order, we can come up with solution steps with:

* Hash indexes of each character for better runtime -&gt; Hashmap
* Compare every adjacent word -&gt; use zip to map every adjacent word
* If any letter of former word is in higher order, return False
* **If current letter of former word is in lower order, skip the rest of the checking**
* If length of former word is longer and latter word is substring of former, return False \(apple & app etc.\)
* Return True

One of the key points of this problem is how we can determine the order for each character pairs. Imagine that if for each pair of character that we are comparing, if there's a simple way that we can compare their weights like order\[c1\] - order\[c2\], then we can simply know if it's ordered up to this pos. The order sequence provided is a sequence of a characters represented as a string, therefore, map each char to a index can help us achieve what we want to do.

#### Takeaways

* ordered list
  * every 2 adjacent elements are ordered
* String comparison
  * 
* zip\(\)
* enumerate\(\)
* all\(\)
* list comparison
* lexicography

### Approach \#1, zip, straight forward

```python
class Solution:
    def isAlienSorted(self, words: List[str], order: str) -> bool:
        m = {c:i for i, c in enumerate(order)}
        for w1, w2 in zip(words, words[1:]):
            if len(w1) > len(w2) and w1[:len(w2)] == w2: return False
            for c1, c2 in zip(w1, w2):
                if m[c1] > m[c2]: return False
                if m[c1] < m[c2]: break
        return True
```

### Approach \#2

```python
class Solution:
    def isAlienSorted(self, words: List[str], order: str) -> bool:
        m = {c : i for i, c in enumerate(order)}
        words = [[m[c] for c in w]for w in words]
        return all(w1 <= w2 for w1, w2 in zip(words, words[1: ]))
```

